# Hubot Tutorial Bot

### Steps to recreate this bot ###
 
If you have root permissions on your current user account:
 
    npm install -g hubot coffee-script yo generator-hubot
    mkdir -p /path/to/hubot
    cd /path/to/hubot
    yo hubot
    # choose "slack" as the adapter
    
Otherwise:

    npm config set prefix ~/.npm
    export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/.npm/bin"
    npm install hubot coffee-script yo generator-hubot
    mkdir -p /path/to/hubot
    cd /path/to/hubot
    yo hubot
    # choose "slack" as the adapter

Install redis (the database that powers hubot):

If you have brew, use this:

    brew install redis
        
Otherwise, use this resource: http://redis.io/topics/quickstart

Start redis:

    redis-server

### Overview

hubot-tutorial is a chat bot built on the [Hubot][hubot] framework. It was initially generated by [generator-hubot][generator-hubot], and configured to be deployed on [Heroku][heroku] to get you up and running as quick as possible.

This README is intended to help get you started. Definitely update and improve to talk about your own instance, how to use and deploy, what functionality he has, etc!

[heroku]: http://www.heroku.com
[hubot]: http://hubot.github.com
[generator-hubot]: https://github.com/github/generator-hubot

### Running hubot-tutorial Locally

You can test your hubot by running the following.

You can start hubot-tutorial locally by running:

    % bin/hubot

You'll see some start up output about where your scripts come from and a
prompt:

    [Sun, 04 Dec 2011 18:41:11 GMT] INFO Loading adapter shell
    [Sun, 04 Dec 2011 18:41:11 GMT] INFO Loading scripts from /home/tomb/Development/hubot/scripts
    [Sun, 04 Dec 2011 18:41:11 GMT] INFO Loading scripts from /home/tomb/Development/hubot/src/scripts
    Hubot>

Then you can interact with hubot-tutorial by typing `hubot-tutorial help`.

    hubot-tutorial> hubot-tutorial help

    hubot-tutorial> animate me <query> - The same thing as `image me`, except adds a few
    convert me <expression> to <units> - Convert expression to given units.
    help - Displays all of the help commands that Hubot knows about.
    ...


### Scripting

An example script is included at `scripts/example.coffee`, so check it out to
get started, along with the [Scripting Guide](https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/scripting.md).

For many common tasks, there's a good chance someone has already one to do just
the thing.

### hubot-scripts

There will inevitably be functionality that everyone will want. Instead
of writing it yourself, you can check
[hubot-scripts][hubot-scripts] for existing scripts.

To enable scripts from the hubot-scripts package, add the script name with
extension as a double quoted string to the `hubot-scripts.json` file in this
repo.

[hubot-scripts]: https://github.com/github/hubot-scripts

### external-scripts

Hubot is able to load scripts from third-party `npm` package. Check the package's documentation, but in general it is:

1. Add the packages as dependencies into your `package.json`
2. `npm install` to make sure those packages are installed
3. Add the package name to `external-scripts.json` as a double quoted string

You can review `external-scripts.json` to see what is included by default.

##  Persistence

If you are going to use the `hubot-redis-brain` package
(strongly suggested), you will need to add the Redis to Go addon on Heroku which requires a verified
account or you can create an account at [Redis to Go][redistogo] and manually
set the `REDISTOGO_URL` variable.

    % heroku config:add REDISTOGO_URL="..."

If you don't require any persistence feel free to remove the
`hubot-redis-brain` from `external-scripts.json` and you don't need to worry
about redis at all.

[redistogo]: https://redistogo.com/

## Adapters

Adapters are the interface to the service you want your hubot to run on. This
can be something like Campfire or IRC. There are a number of third party
adapters that the community have contributed. Check
[Hubot Adapters][hubot-adapters] for the available ones.

If you would like to run a non-Campfire or shell adapter you will need to add
the adapter package as a dependency to the `package.json` file in the
`dependencies` section.

Once you've added the dependency and run `npm install` to install it you can
then run hubot with the adapter.

    % bin/hubot -a <adapter>

Where `<adapter>` is the name of your adapter without the `hubot-` prefix.

[hubot-adapters]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/adapters.md

## Testing the bot locally:

    HUBOT_SLACK_TOKEN=YOUR_TOKEN_HERE ./bin/hubot -a slack
    
## Deployment

This is a modified set of instructions based on the [instructions on the Hubot wiki](https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/deploying/heroku.md).

- Follow the instructions above to create a hubot locally
- Edit your `Procfile`; it should look something like this:

        web: bin/hubot --adapter slack

- Install [heroku toolbelt](https://toolbelt.heroku.com/) if you haven't already.
- `heroku create my-company-slackbot`
- `heroku addons:add redistogo:nano`
- Activate the Hubot service on your ["Team Services"](http://my.slack.com/services/new/hubot) page inside Slack.
- Add the [config variables](#adapter-configuration). For example:

        % heroku config:add HUBOT_SLACK_TOKEN=xoxb-1234-5678-91011-00e4dd
        % heroku config:add HEROKU_URL=http://my-company-slackbot.herokuapp.com

- Deploy and start the bot:

        % git push heroku master
        % heroku ps:scale web=1

- Profit!

## Campfire Variables

If you are using the Campfire adapter you will need to set some environment
variables. Refer to the documentation for other adapters and the configuraiton
of those, links to the adapters can be found on [Hubot Adapters][hubot-adapters].

Create a separate Campfire user for your bot and get their token from the web
UI.

    % heroku config:add HUBOT_CAMPFIRE_TOKEN="..."

Get the numeric IDs of the rooms you want the bot to join, comma delimited. If
you want the bot to connect to `https://mysubdomain.campfirenow.com/room/42`
and `https://mysubdomain.campfirenow.com/room/1024` then you'd add it like this:

    % heroku config:add HUBOT_CAMPFIRE_ROOMS="42,1024"

Add the subdomain hubot should connect to. If you web URL looks like
`http://mysubdomain.campfirenow.com` then you'd add it like this:

    % heroku config:add HUBOT_CAMPFIRE_ACCOUNT="mysubdomain"

[hubot-adapters]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/adapters.md

## Configuration

This adapter uses the following environment variables:

 - `HUBOT_SLACK_TOKEN` - this is the API token for the Slack user you would like to run Hubot under.

To add or remove your bot from specific channels or private groups, you can use the /kick and /invite slash commands that are built into Slack.

## Restart the bot

You may want to get comfortable with `heroku logs` and `heroku restart`
if you're having issues.
